---
title: Sha256 Support
description: You can now use Sha256 in Summon and import other Bristol circuits. 🎉
slug: sha256
authors: andrew
date: 2025-06-16
tags: [sha256, summon, privacy, developer-tools, circuits, cryptography, compiler]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

You can now use Sha256 in Summon and import other Bristol circuits. 🎉

<!--truncate-->

### Importing Circuits

This is part of a broader feature to translate any Bristol circuit into Summon. You can now do that like this:

```sh
# in the summon repo
cargo run --bin bristol_to_summon -- -i sha256.txt -o sha256.ts
```

The Bristol circuit used defines the core of Sha256 which takes a 512-bit block and a 256-bit state and outputs a new 256-bit state. In Summon we can take that a step further by implementing the static padding and block splitting so that we can simply provide [the complete Sha256 function](https://github.com/privacy-scaling-explorations/summon-lib/blob/main/sha256/mod.ts) rather than just the core mechanism.

### Why

Adding this enables MPC use cases that need verified data. Our current vanilla demos allow you to input anything you like. With a hash function like Sha256, we can ensure that inputs correspond to hashes:

```ts
if (!bitsEqual(hash(input), knownHash)) {
  throw new Error('failed hash check');
}
```

To make this a little more concrete, suppose `input` is provided by Alice. Bob knows `hash(input)`, but `input` is Alice’s secret. Enforcing `hash(input)` effectively enforces `input` itself - it’s computationally infeasible for Alice to find `evilInput` such that `hash(evilInput) == hash(input)`, so Alice has no choice but to provide her genuine `input` if she wants to participate in an MPC protocol that contains this check.

This is particularly useful for signed data. Signature algorithms are typically structured as `sign(hash(input))`, rather than simply `sign(input)` (and `hash` is very often Sha256). This means Bob can learn that `hash(input)` represents a correctly signed hash without learning `input` itself, which means we don’t need to do the signature algorithm inside MPC. In short, we verify the signature outside MPC, then verify the hash inside MPC, which is great for both simplicity and efficiency.

### Fun Fact

Prior to this change, in the bytecode that Summon uses internally, addresses were 16-bit. Sha256 broke that, because it produced bytecodes that were longer than 2^16 bytes (64KiB) for the first time. Summon bytecode now uses 32-bit addresses.

## Join Us!

- [Telegram group](https://t.me/+FKnOHTkvmX02ODVl)
- [Discord](https://discord.gg/btXAmwzYJS) (Channel name: 🔮-mpc-framework)
- [Github Repo](https://github.com/privacy-scaling-explorations/mpc-framework) ⭐️
- [Website](https://mpc.pse.dev)

Thanks for building privacy‑preserving magic with us! 🪄
